[MUSIC PLAYING]
In this Mini Tip, I
want to introduce you
to a little tool which
allows you to play around
with HTTP/2 locally.
I'm Surma.
And I'm also the
author of this tool.
HTTP/2 is supported in almost
all browsers at this point
and brings a lot of changes
both in how we design
as well as build our web apps.
The support on the server side
is a little bit more lacking.
So just quickly
playing around with it
gets a little tough,
especially considering
you need a TLS certificate
for HTTP/2 to work.
Generating a self-signed
certificate for a local host
is kind of tedious
as well, which
was motivation enough for me
to write this little tool.
Most web developers should
be familiar with Python's
built-in web server
called Simple HTTP Server.
You usually start it
over the command line.
And it serves the current
directory over HTTP.
What I wrote is called Simple
HTTP/2 Server and behaves
exactly the same, but
uses HTTP/2 instead
and takes care of generating
a certificate for you.
I wrote it in Go instead
of Python because A,
I am pretty useless
when it comes to Python;
and B, Go has the nice
side effect that you only
need to download one binary and
don't need a runtime or an SDK.
You can find all these binaries
for Windows, Linux, and OS
X in the release section of
the repository on GitHub.
You basically install this
tool by putting the binary
in your path.
If you start the
tool, it will generate
a key.pem and a
cert.pem, which are
the private and the public
parts of the certificate.
It then starts up a web server
serving the current directory.
If you open up Def tools,
go to the Network tab
and add the Protocol column.
You'll hopefully
see H2 showing up.
That is the official
symbol for HTTP/2.
And it means that it's working.
One interesting feature
of HTTP/2 is called push.
It allows you to send additional
resources to the client
that the client doesn't
even know it needs yet.
So, for example, you could put
your JavaScript in CSS files
when someone is
requesting the index html.
Simple HTTP/2 Server has
support for this, too.
You need to write
a JSON file that
lists all the resources
that should be pushed when
a certain file is requested.
Save that file as push.json
in the root of the project
and start Simple HTTP/2 Server.
As you can see, the error
about a missing push manifest
is now gone.
The server will now push as
you specified in the manifest.
And that's it already.
Keep in mind that this tool
is for experimenting and not
a production web server.
If you have any
problems or questions,
feel free to hit
me up on Twitter
or open up an issue on
the GitHub Repository.
Enjoy HTTP/2.
[MUSIC PLAYING]